# P2 - Pipeline and Code-Base implementation

In the present document, all the work developed during this phase is presented, as well as its contributors.

This first Iteration of the second phase is a continuation of the first phase, which requires from us the automatization of the workflow environment using CI/CD pipelines with Github Actions, as well as the implementation of the domain and its respective functionalities.

## Team Members
- 1190404 - António Barbosa
- 1190640 - Guilherme Cota
- 1190800 - Leandro Sousa
- 1190007 - Hellen Santos
- 1200613 - Joao Lucas Roesner

# User Story Implementation

### [User Registration and Authentication](https://github.com/padrinoski/desofs2024_M1C_1/issues/1)

In this US the main goal was to authenticate using Auth0, however, since the plan was to implement the domain in our own API and setup all the relevant connections and dependencies, the User Registration and Authentication was done as a secondary backup mechanism, in case Auth0 was down. This means that right now we have a register and login system implemented by us in our API, but the main focus will be in the next delivery where we will be working in the front-end and that's where we will implement Auth0, and all the relevant security features. Functional testing was also implemented.

<h2>  </h2>

### [Browse Comic Books](https://github.com/padrinoski/desofs2024_M1C_1/issues/2) and [Manage Comic Books (Store Clerk)](https://github.com/padrinoski/desofs2024_M1C_1/issues/8)

The main goal of these US is to make store clerks and even admins able to manage the comic books, creating new ones to be available, modifying existing ones or even deleting them. These US are only available for back-office users and modification is only able for the owner/creator of that comic book. The comic book browsing is not restricted to only back-office users as it is available for every user that is authenticated.

### [Manage Admin Accounts (Store Manager)](https://github.com/padrinoski/desofs2024_M1C_1/issues/10)
In this US, the main objective was to have CRUD operations act against users with Role = Admin. This means we could create / delete / update admin accounts. This was implemented in our API, however this will be done aswell, using Auth0 after we begin working on the frontend. Functional testing was also done for this US.
<h2>  </h2>

### [View Customer Orders (Store Clerk)](https://github.com/padrinoski/desofs2024_M1C_1/issues/9)
For this User Story, the  Store Clerk should be able to view all the orders made by the customers. The endpoint GetAllOrders was created to retrieve all the orders and its details from the database, so it returns an Order and includes properties such as OrderId, TotalCost, ShoppingCartId, Address, and PaymentMethod.

### [View Invoice](https://github.com/padrinoski/desofs2024_M1C_1/issues/7)
In this User Story, after an order is complete, the user will have the option to generate the invoice, this will send a GET request to the GenerateInvoice endpoint with orderId as the only parameter. The Invoice service will get the order, the shopping cart associated with it, all their items and the name and price for each item, and (based on a pre-defined template) will create the Invoice with that information in a PDF form. Finally, the file is transformed in an array of bytes and sent as a response to then be available as a download.

### [View Order History](https://github.com/padrinoski/desofs2024_M1C_1/issues/6)
something
<h2>  </h2>

### [Place Orders](https://github.com/padrinoski/desofs2024_M1C_1/issues/5)
For this User Story, the CreateOrder endpoint was created. This endpoint will generate an order by receiving the Shopping Cart Item id, the user's Address and the desired Payment Method. Then, the service will check the related Cart and its items to generate a sum up of the items value, multiplying the comic book price by the quantity of each Comic Book added by the user.

### [Shopping Cart](https://github.com/padrinoski/desofs2024_M1C_1/issues/4)
For this User Story, four relevant endpoints were added to the shopping cart controller: GetCart, CreateCart, AddItem and DeleteItem:
- The GetCart endpoint uses a path variable which is the Cart id as a way to retrieves from the database that Cart's relevant information.
- The AddItem is a POST request which receives a body with the Cart id, the Comic Book id, and it's quantity. It then saves that information to the database.
- The DeleteItem receives the Item id as a path variable and then delete this item from the database and the Cart it was added to.
- The CreateCart endpoint will create a Cart and receive a body with the User id that created it.

### [Search and Filter Comic Books](https://github.com/padrinoski/desofs2024_M1C_1/issues/3)
For this User Story, the SearchComicBooks endpoint was created. It can receive the following parameters:
- title: (Optional) A string that represents the title of the comic book. The endpoint will return comic books that contain this string in their title.
- author: (Optional) A string that represents the author of the comic book. The endpoint will return comic books that contain this string in their author's name.
- sortBy: (Optional) A string that determines the property by which the results should be sorted. It can be "price", "publishingDate", or "title". The default value is "title".
- sortOrder: (Optional) A string that determines the order of the sort. It can be "asc" for ascending order or "desc" for descending order. The default value is "asc".

# Pipeline Implementation

### [Pipeline](https://github.com/padrinoski/desofs2024_M1C_1/issues/11)
The automatic workflow on GitHub actions is a CI/CD automation feature that allows several validations to be made whenever a new piece of code is added to the structure.

Based on that, we defined a trigger in our Workflow so that everytime any code is pushed to a branch, it will automatically run the workflow by the “on push” call. Then, it will prepare all the environments, set up .NET (for the c# project), Java (for the dynamic testing - dotnet-trace requires it), Node (for the dynamic testing - dotnet-trace output modulation on Speedscope) and SonarScan (static testing - SonarQube).

Then, the code is checked out so that the Runner has access to the code, and then dotnet build and dotnet run are tested. After this, the SonarQube quality check is made and after the application is started on nohup (detached), other commands can be run. During this time, when the applications is running, the run of black-box (Postman) tests are validated using newman and its results printed. 

Finally, the dotnet-trace was defined to run for 20s while the application is running and the report is exported as an artifact, since this is only visible using the encoding website of Speedscope.

## Security Measures

### Authorization
Some authorization measures were added to the system, being one of those the usage of JWT (JSON Web Token) to authenticate users and authorize their access to the application. The JWT is generated when a user logs in and is sent in the header of the requests. The application checks the token and allows or denies access to the user based on the following Action Filters defined:
- **PodeAcederFrontOfficeFilter**: This class specifically is used to check if a user has the authorization to access the front office of the application. It does this by checking the JWT (JSON Web Token) provided in the request header. If the token is valid and the user has the necessary role, the request is allowed to pass through. Otherwise, the request is blocked and a 401 Forbidden response is returned.
- **PodeAcederBackOfficeFilter**: This class is used to check if a user has the authorization to access the back office of the application. It does this by checking the JWT (JSON Web Token) provided in the request header. If the token is valid and the user has the necessary role, the request is allowed to pass through. Otherwise, the request is blocked and a 401 Forbidden response is returned.
- **PodeEditarComicBookFilter**: This class is used to check if a user has the authorization to edit the intended comic book. Not only it validates the user against the previously mentioned requirements but it also validates that the comic book that is going to be modified belongs, in fact, to the user.
- **PodeAcederAInformacoesSensiveisFilter**: This class is used to check if a user has the authorization to access sensitive information. It does this by checking the JWT (JSON Web Token) provided in the request header. If the token is valid and the user has the necessary role, the request is allowed to pass through. Otherwise, the request is blocked and a 401 Forbidden response is returned.

Aditional measures consist on model/dto validation pre-request treatment. This means that, when sending a request, the passed object is validate against the expect structure of each and every field. For example, if we are expecting an email, this field will be validated in order to have the expected structure. In case of non-compliance, the API will return the request with a 400 (Bad Request) response and with wich validation failed to comply. 

Finally, each and every record on the database has its own audit fields that are automatically changed and populated according to the id of the user that made the change and the timestamp of the change.
