
# P2 - Pipeline and Code-Base implementation

In the present document, all the work developed during this phase is presented, as well as its contributors.

This Second Iteration of the second phase is a continuation of the first iteration, which required from us the automatization of the workflow environment using CI/CD pipelines with Github Actions, as well as the implementation of the domain, its respective functionalities and their security measures.

For this Second Iteration, we focused on continue the implementation on the front-end side of the application, as well as the pipeline. So, this document describes the general enhancements and additions that were included to this project since the last delivery [(P2)](https://github.com/padrinoski/desofs2024_M1C_1/blob/main/deliverables/P2.md).

## Team Members
- 1190404 - António Barbosa
- 1190640 - Guilherme Cota
- 1190800 - Leandro Sousa
- 1190007 - Hellen Santos
- 1200613 - Joao Lucas Roesner

# User Story Implementation

### [User Registration and Authentication](https://github.com/padrinoski/desofs2024_M1C_1/issues/1)

For this User Story, Auth0 is used as the primary method for user authentication. The main goal of using Auth0 is to provide a secure and reliable authentication mechanism.

It has been implemented on the Login/Logout tab on the Navbar of the application, where the User can Sign-up, Login and Logout.

However, this project also contains a secondary backup mechanism for user registration and authentication, which has been implemented in the project's API, and that should be used in case Auth0 experiences downtime.

### [Browse Comic Books](https://github.com/padrinoski/desofs2024_M1C_1/issues/2) and [Manage Comic Books (Store Clerk)](https://github.com/padrinoski/desofs2024_M1C_1/issues/8)

These User Stories have been implemented on the Comic Books tabs of the Navbar. When clicking on this tab, it will redirect to a page that will list all the existent Comic Book records. If the user has the role  with necessary permissions to edit/create new Comic Book records, then the buttons with each respective functionality will appear.

This is done by doing a request to the backend and checking if the user has the necessary privileges to perform any changes to or just visualize the Comic Books.

### [Manage Admin Accounts (Store Manager)](https://github.com/padrinoski/desofs2024_M1C_1/issues/10)

This User Story has been implemented to the Application by using the Auth0 Dashboard. By using the Auth0 Dashboard, it allows the Store Manager to:
* Add new users, update user details, assign roles, and delete users.
* Define and manage roles that determine the level of access users have within the Auth0 system. Roles can be assigned to users to grant specific permissions.
* Send invitation emails to new users, enabling them to set up their accounts and access permissions.
* View logs and monitor activities to track admin actions and ensure compliance and security.

### [View Customer Orders (Store Clerk)](https://github.com/padrinoski/desofs2024_M1C_1/issues/9)

This User Story has been implemented by allowing Authenticated Users to click on the 'Customer Orders' Tab on the Navbar and check all current placed Orders. It does this by sending a request to the backend to fetch those records, and it fails if the filter indentifies when the User has no permissions to access these type of information. It allows the Store Clerks and Admins only to visualize the Order Details.


### [View Invoice](https://github.com/padrinoski/desofs2024_M1C_1/issues/7)

This User Story was implemented within the order history and view orders pages and appears as a button related to each order displayed, upon clicking the 'Download PDF' button, a request is sent to the backend which creates a PDF file of the Invoice and converts it to Base64, after the frontend recieves the response data, it decodes it back into a pdf format and downloads it into the machine of the user.

### [View Order History](https://github.com/padrinoski/desofs2024_M1C_1/issues/6)

This User Story was implemented by the creation of a new 'Order history' page, which has a list of all orders related to the current logged in user. Upon entering the page, the system sends a request to the back end to retrieve all the associated Orders, it then list all Orders as a table, for each row, a button to display Order details is available, and when clicked shows a popup with extra details of the order such as the products bought, the quantity for each product and the price. 


### [Place Orders](https://github.com/padrinoski/desofs2024_M1C_1/issues/5)


### [Shopping Cart](https://github.com/padrinoski/desofs2024_M1C_1/issues/4)


### [Search and Filter Comic Books](https://github.com/padrinoski/desofs2024_M1C_1/issues/3)


# Pipeline Implementation

### [Pipeline](https://github.com/padrinoski/desofs2024_M1C_1/issues/11)
The automatic workflow on GitHub actions is a CI/CD automation feature that allows several validations to be made whenever a new piece of code is added to the structure. 

On the last Iteration, we have developed a pipeline that would focus on building the project and running the necessary tests. For this Iteration, we decided on creating a new workflow that would be responsible for building and deploying both the frontend (React) and backend (.NET) for our Comic Book Store application, which is triggered on every push to the main branch.

It has two main jobs:

1. Build Job
* The job runs on the latest version of Ubuntu.
* It checks out the code from the repository.
* Sets up Node.js version 14.
* Installs the project's dependencies using npm install in the DESOFT/desoft.client directory.
* Sets up .NET version 8.0.x.
* Builds the React app using npm run build in the DESOFT/desoft.client directory.
* Builds the C# (.NET) application using dotnet build in the DESOFT/DESOFT.Server directory.
* Creates C# build artifacts using dotnet publish in the DESOFT/DESOFT.Server directory.
* Uploads the C# build artifacts to GitHub using actions/upload-artifact.
* Uploads the React build artifacts to GitHub using actions/upload-artifact.

2. Deploy Job
* This job also runs on the latest version of Ubuntu and depends on the successful completion of the build job.
* It checks out the code from the repository.
* Downloads the C# build artifacts from GitHub using actions/download-artifact.
* Deploys the C# build artifacts to a server using appleboy/scp-action. The server details (host, username, port, password) are stored as secrets in the GitHub repository.
* Downloads the React build artifacts from GitHub using actions/download-artifact.
* Deploys the React build artifacts to the same server using appleboy/scp-action.

## Security Measures

### Auth0

Auth0 is a flexible, drop-in solution to add authentication and authorization services to your applications. It provides a range of features for secure identity management, including user login, multifactor authentication (MFA), single sign-on (SSO), and social login integration. Auth0 handles the complexities of authentication processes, ensuring secure handling of user credentials, session management, and access control, thus enabling developers to implement robust security mechanisms quickly and efficiently.

For our E-commerce Application, Auth0 has been successfully implemented to meet various Application Security Verification Standard (ASVS) requirements, particularly those related to authentication, session management, and access control. 

Some of the identified security measures implemented by us with Auth0 are:

* Authentication and Authorization: Auth0 provides robust user login, multifactor authentication (MFA), single sign-on (SSO), and social login integration. It securely handles user credentials, session management, and access control.

* SQL Injection Protection: Auth0 uses parameterized queries and prepared statements to interact with databases, which separates SQL logic from data, preventing SQL injection. It also utilizes Object-Relational Mappers (ORMs) and secure database interfaces to abstract direct SQL query execution, reducing the risk of injection vulnerabilities.

* Cross-Site Scripting (XSS) Protection: Auth0 validates and sanitizes input to prevent the execution of malicious scripts. It supports the implementation of Content Security Policies (CSP) to specify which sources of content are allowed to be loaded and executed. It also encodes data before rendering it on web pages to ensure that any injected content is not executed as code.

* Cross-Site Request Forgery (CSRF) Protection: Auth0 supports the use of SameSite cookie attributes to prevent cookies from being sent along with cross-site requests. It sets cookies with the Secure and HttpOnly flags to ensure they are only sent over HTTPS and are not accessible via JavaScript, reducing the risk of session hijacking and CSRF.

* Role-Based Access Control (RBAC): Auth0 provides support for RBAC, which allows for fine-grained control over who can access what resources.

### Rate Limiting

The rate limiting feature is used to control the rate of requests that clients can make to an API within a certain time period. This is useful for preventing abuse and ensuring fair usage.

We are using Microsoft.AspNetCore.RateLimiting, which is a middleware for ASP.NET Core that provides rate limiting features. Our code sets up a rate limit of 10 requests per 10 seconds for each client IP address. If a client exceeds this limit, the server will respond with a 429 status code.

An example of that implementation is on the [Program.cs](https://github.com/padrinoski/desofs2024_M1C_1/blob/main/DESOFT/DESOFT.Server/Program.cs) file.

* AddRateLimiter(options => {...}): This method is used to add and configure the rate limiting middleware.

* options.RejectionStatusCode = StatusCodes.Status429TooManyRequests;: This line sets the HTTP status code that will be returned when a client exceeds their rate limit. In this case, it's set to 429, which stands for "Too Many Requests".

* options.AddPolicy("fixed", context => {...}): This method is used to add a rate limiting policy. In this case, a "fixed" policy is being used.

* RateLimitPartition.GetFixedWindowLimiter(...): This method is used to create a rate limiter for a fixed window of time. The partitionKey is set to the remote IP address of the client, meaning each IP address will have its own rate limit.

* new FixedWindowRateLimiterOptions{...}: This object is used to configure the rate limiter. The PermitLimit is set to 10, meaning each client can make 10 requests per window. The Window is set to 10 seconds, meaning the rate limit will reset every 10 seconds.

* In each controller, a line [EnableRateLimiting("fixed")] is written to define that controller is using rate limiter and to define which policy is active. This can be controlled with more granularity by applying it for each endpoint instead, and having different policies for different application contexts.

### Input Sanitization 

For some User Stories that require manual User Input, a simple input sanitization mechanism was used to protect the inputs against attacks such as Cross-Site Scripting (XSS). React already escapes output by default which helps prevent XSS attacks. However, as it's still a good practice to sanitize inputs, as we are going to use them in other contexts (like sending them to an API), we decided to use a simple sanitization method:

```
const sanitizeInput = (input) => {
    const div = document.createElement('div');
    div.textContent = input;
    return div.innerHTML;
};
```

This sanitizeInput function creates a new div element, sets its textContent to the input (which automatically escapes any HTML), and then returns the innerHTML (which is now safely escaped). However, it doesn't cover all edge cases and a more specific library can be used if needed, like DOMPurify. We decided by not using those as generally, using React, Auth0 and a simple sanitization should cover the majority of our web application's needs.

### Input Validation

For some User Stories that require manual User Input, a simple input validation mechanism was used to assure the inputs are following some basic formatting.

On the [edit-comic-dialog.tsx](https://github.com/padrinoski/desofs2024_M1C_1/blob/main/DESOFT/desoft.client/src/Components/ComicBook/edit-comic-dialog.tsx) file some basic validations are done to best assure the data integrity and security.

There we have implemented:
* Version Check: The comicBookPost function checks if the 'version' input field is not empty and if it's valid. If it's not, it alerts the user with 'Unsupported version.'.

* Input Length Limit: The maxLength attribute is used on the 'title', 'description', and 'author' input fields to limit the number of characters a user can input.

* Number Input: The 'price' input field is of type 'number', which means the browser will only allow numerical input.

Those validations are simple abut efficient to the scale of this project, however, more edge cases can be covered with needed by implementing more Input Validations techniques.

### Back-End access

All Back-end access have been protected by Auth0's React SDK, using the getAccessTokenSilently method. It attempts to get an access token without prompting the user to log in again, making it a seamless experience for the user. It's mains features include:

* Token Storage: The Auth0 SDK stores tokens in memory by default. This prevents tokens from being leaked through cross-site scripting (XSS) attacks as they are not stored in the browser's local storage.

* Token Renewal: getAccessTokenSilently renews the access token using an iframe and the prompt=none parameter, which means the Auth0 authorization server will only issue a new token if the user has a valid session and won't prompt for login.

* SameSite Cookies: Auth0 uses SameSite cookies to maintain the user's session, which mitigates the risk of cross-site request forgery (CSRF) attacks.

* Token Validation: The SDK validates the token's signature and claims (like expiration, audience, and issuer) to ensure it's valid.

As security measures, we have added some Auuth0's Scopes to assure the endpoints are only being called for the right purposes.

## ASVS Checklist Requirements

### 4. - Access Control

#### 4.1.1 - Verify that the application enforces access control rules on a trusted service layer, especially if client-side access control is present and could be bypassed.

Access control is currently enforced at each and every endpoint by using the TypeFilter class [TypeFilterAttribute Class](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/api/microsoft.aspnetcore.mvc.typefilterattribute?view=aspnetcore-8.0). This ensures and filters API calls having a segregated service layer that provides support for this filtering.

### 5. - Validation, Sanitization and Encoding

#### 5.3.4 Verify that data selection or database queries (e.g. SQL, HQL, ORM, NoSQL) use parameterized queries, ORMs, entity frameworks, or are otherwise protected from database injection attacks. ([C3](https://owasp.org/www-project-proactive-controls/#div-numbering))

The application API is built and using the ADO.NET Entity Framework. See more here [Entity Framework Documentation](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/ef/)

### 6. - Stored Cryptography

#### 6.1.1 Verify that regulated private data is stored encrypted while at rest, such as Personally Identifiable Information (PII), sensitive personal information, or data assessed likely to be subject to EU's GDPR.

The only sensitive information implemented in the project is the user's password, which is stored by auth0 encrypted, it's value cannot be accessed by the dabase itself.

#### 6.2.2 Verify that industry proven or government approved cryptographic algorithms, modes, and libraries are used, instead of custom coded cryptography. ([C8](https://owasp.org/www-project-proactive-controls/#div-numbering))

The application has auth0 applying JWT encryption to the user's passwords, it uses a signing algorithm to to sign tokens issued for your application or API. It can be verified on front-end files that import auth0 for their authorization logic.

#### 6.2.5 Verify that known insecure block modes (i.e. ECB, etc.), padding modes (i.e. PKCS#1 v1.5, etc.), ciphers with small block sizes (i.e. Triple-DES, Blowfish, etc.), and weak hashing algorithms (i.e. MD5, SHA1, etc.) are not used unless required for backwards compatibility.

No insecure algorithm is used by the system, as it is recently implemented, it uses modern algorithms when necessary, additionally, it uses external APIs such as auth0 witch also use truted algorithms (in the case of auth0, when creating an user, Bcrypt is used as the hashing algorithm).

#### 6.3.1 Verify that all random numbers, random file names, random GUIDs, and random strings are generated using the cryptographic module's approved cryptographically secure random number generator when these random values are intended to be not guessable by an attacker.

An example of this security measure being implemented can be found in the use of GUID v4 algorithm in the creation of the User's Id, this generated guid is made to be random, and has 122 bits allocated to the random values, giving a total number of 2^122 possible distinct values.

#### 6.3.2 Verify that random GUIDs are created using the GUID v4 algorithm, and a Cryptographically-secure Pseudo-random Number Generator (CSPRNG). GUIDs created using other pseudo-random number generators may be predictable.

v4 Guid algorithms are created randomly, the way to identify that a created GUID is of type v4 the GUID will have a version number in one of it's bytes, more specifically, it will follow the format xxxxxxxx-xxxx-4xxx-xxxx-xxxxxxxxxxxx (where 4 indicates the version).
The system utilizes this algorithm, as can be seen in the User table for example, where the guids have the version bit '4'. The system uses sql server to host it's database, which implements this automatically.


### 7. - Error Handling and Logging
#### 7.1.3 - Verify that the application logs security relevant events including successful and failed authentication events, access control failures, deserialization failures and input validation failures.
The application logs exceptions and errors that occur during the processing of a request. This is evident in the catch blocks of the try-catch statements where the error message is logged using _logger.LogError(ex.Message). [Example: ShoppingCartService.cs](https://github.com/padrinoski/desofs2024_M1C_1/blob/main/DESOFT/DESOFT.Server/API/Application/Services/ShoppingCartService.cs)

### 10. - Malicious Code 
#### 10.1.1 - Verify that a code analysis tool is in use that can detect potentially malicious code, such as time functions, unsafe file operations and network connections.
Code is currently being analysed both, static and dynamic code analysis, in the pipeline using SonarQube and dotnet-trace. See more here  [Developed GitHub Actions Pipeline](https://github.com/padrinoski/desofs2024_M1C_1/blob/main/.github/workflows/build-and-test.yml)

### 13. - API and Web Service
#### 13.1.4 Verify that authorization decisions are made at both the URI, enforced by programmatic or declarative security at the controller or router, and at the resource level, enforced by model-based permissions.

The system applies authorization checks in the authorization check in the front-end by checking authorization status from auth0 (as seen on any front end file), the user after logged in has a role assigned to it which is verified at controller level (such as [TypeFilter(typeof(PodeAcederBackOfficeFilter))]).

#### 13.2.1 Verify that enabled RESTful HTTP methods are a valid choice for the user or action, such as preventing normal users using DELETE or PUT on protected API or resources.
The system has a role check for DELETE and PUT requests, as an example, Comic book controller has the following type checks: [TypeFilter(typeof(PodeAcederBackOfficeFilter))] and [TypeFilter(typeof(PodeEditarComicBookFilter))] to guarantee limit access to these requests.

### 14. - Configuration

#### 14.1.1 Verify that the application build and deployment processes are performed in a secure and repeatable way, such as CI / CD automation, automated configuration management, and automated deployment scripts.

A github pipeline was implemented and runs at every commit with defined steps that guarantee a repeatable deployment process.

#### 14.2.1 Verify that all components are up to date, preferably using a dependency checker during build or compile time. ([C2](https://owasp.org/www-project-proactive-controls/#div-numbering))
The system's packages are defined to be built using the lastest version available.

#### 14.5.4 Verify that the Cross-Origin Resource Sharing (CORS) Access-Control-Allow-Origin header uses a strict allow list of trusted domains and subdomains to match against and does not support the "null" origin.
CORS is used in the frontend with a 'Access-Control-Allow-Origin' line in mains.tsx to define the limits of the domain.

